Before engaging with either of the vacuum formers, first check that you are equipped
with the proper safety equipment: a functioning respirator and filters, and closed toe shoes
are required, not optional.
Whenever you enter the vacuum forming room, ensure that you securely close the room's
doors so that fumes do not escape.
Make sure you turn on the lights located on the left-side wall,
turn on the room ventilation located on the right-side wall,
and the miniature vacuum former's power switch located on the left side of the machine
as it takes several minutes to completely heat up for use.
If you're using a release agent on your buck, such as talcum powder, do so now while the machine is heating up.
Be sparse in your release agent application.
When the machine has been heated for several minutes, you may now begin operating it.
First, raise the bed of the vacuum former using the lever on the right-hand side of the machine
as well as raise the frame clamp lid up using the small blue handles.
With the lid upright, you'll want to slide in the metal frame crop that best fits the form size you're making.
Use the smallest frame crop that fits your buck so as to not waste unnecessary material.
Once your proper frame crop is set, gently place your buck in the center of the bed.
When you're done, lower the bed fully back down with your buck on it using the same lever.
Next, slide your forming material over the opening and center it.
Your material should be one inch larger in both length and width of the frame crop you're using.
When ready, gently lower the frame clamp lid back down and tighten it with the two
clamps located on the same two handles.
For most applications, it is recommended that you keep all of the machine's heating
control dials to their maximum strength.
To the right of the heating controls is the heating timer.
20 seconds is a sufficient amount for most materials.
When you're ready to form, slide the heating module completely forward using the large blue handle.
The timer will begin counting down and the machine will beep when it reaches zero, though the machine's
heating module never actually stops heating so stand nearby.
You'll know your material is properly heated when it slightly sags.
If your material is still too firm, slide the heating module back over and it will automatically continue heating.
Once your material is sufficiently heated, immediately raise the bed completely and then flip the vacuum pump switch.
After several seconds, push down the release lever to help loosen the buck with air.
Now flip the vacuum pump switch back off and leave the form to sit undisturbed
for roughly one minute to allow it to cool down.
Once your form has cooled down, you may remove it from the machine and separate your components.
Remember to be courteous and clean Remember to be courteous and clean put back any frame crops you used,
lower the frame clamp lid, and return the bed to its lowered position.
When you exit the vacuum forming room, don't forget to turn off the vacuum former, ventilation, and lights,
and properly close the doors if no one is queued next.
Congratulations, you now know how to properly, safely, and successfully vacuum form.
This concludes the SCI-Arc vacuum forming guide.